---
title: "Lymph-derived chemokines direct early neutrophil infiltration in the lymph nodes upon Staphylococcus aureus skin infection."
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-08-01-PNAS
excerpt: 'Xue, J., Lin, Y., Oo, D., Zhang, J., Zardynezhad, A., de Jesus, F. N., Stephens, M., <span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Young, D., Dufour, A., and Liao, S.'
date: 2022-08-01
venue: 'PNAS'
slidesurl: #'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2111726119'
bibtexurl: #'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
citation: #'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---
Abstract: <br>
A large number of neutrophils infiltrate the lymph node (LN) within 4 h after *Staphylococcus aureus* skin infection (4 h postinfection [hpi]) and prevent systemic *S. aureus* dissemination. It is not clear how infection in the skin can remotely and effectively recruit neutrophils to the LN. Here, we found that lymphatic vessel occlusion substantially reduced neutrophil recruitment to the LN. Lymphatic vessels effectively transported bacteria and proinflammatory chemokines (i.e., Chemokine [C-X-C motif] motif 1 [CXCL1] and CXCL2) to the LN. However, in the absence of lymph flow, *S. aureus* alone in the LN was insufficient to recruit neutrophils to the LN at 4 hpi. Instead, lymph flow facilitated the earliest neutrophil recruitment to the LN by delivering chemokines (i.e., CXCL1, CXCL2) from the site of infection. Lymphatic dysfunction is often found during inflammation. During oxazolone (OX)-induced skin inflammation, CXCL1/2 in the LN was reduced after infection. The interrupted LN conduits further disrupted the flow of lymph and impeded its communication with high endothelial venules (HEVs), resulting in impaired neutrophil migration. The impaired neutrophil interaction with bacteria contributed to persistent infection in the LN. Our studies showed that both the flow of lymph from lymphatic vessels to the LN and the distribution of lymph in the LN are critical to ensure optimal neutrophil migration and timely innate immune protection in *S. aureus* infection.

Authors:<br>
Xue, J., Lin, Y., Oo, D., Zhang, J., Zardynezhad, A., de Jesus, F. N., Stephens, M., <span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Young, D., Dufour, A., and Liao, S.

<a href='https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2111726119'>Access publication here</a>