---
title: "Exercise following demyelination promotes changes in mouse spinal cord proteome"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2021-05-10-CNPN
venue: "Canadian National Proteomics Network Conference (CNPN)"
date: 2021-05-10
location: "Calgary, AB, CA"
---
Authors: <br>
<span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Lozinski, B., Silva, C., Dong, Y., Brown, D., Chopra, S., Yong, V. W., and Dufour, A.
<br>
<br>

Abstract:<br>
Background: Exercise offers multiple benefits for health in general, but it can be particularly helpful for people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS), as proposed by animal models showing an improvement of remyelination and decreased leukocyte infiltration. However, PwMS rarely engage in physical activities, highlighting the need for a deeper understanding of the exercise effects on the central nervous system.
Hypothesis: We hypothesize that short bouts of exercise promote changes in the serum and spinal cord proteome of lesioned mice.
Aim: We aim to profile the proteome of mice that exercised for three days after a demyelinating lesion.
Methods: Mice were subjected to lysolecithin-induced spinal cord demyelination followed by immediate access to a running wheel for three days. Blood serum and lesioned spinal cord were collected and subjected to a shotgun proteomics workflow for total protein quantification. Briefly, proteins were extracted, digested, and the peptides were labeled with tandem mass tag (TMT).
Results: We identified 14 upregulated and 11 downregulated proteins in the serum following acute exercise. For the tissue, we identified 86 upregulated and 85 downregulated proteins. Among the altered pathways, we identified enrichment for oxidative stress response, metabolism, signaling of chemical synapses, and neutrophil degranulation following acute exercise.
Conclusion: We demonstrate that short bouts of exercise are sufficient to induce protein level changes in the lesioned spinal cord. Understanding the required amount of exercise capable of influencing the CNS will be critical to guide future studies that intend to maximize the benefits of exercise for PwMS.