---
title: "The effects of legumain inhibition in macrophages as determined by proteomics and N-terminomics"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2022-04-24-PCP
venue: "Pacific Coast Protease Workshop"
date: 2022-04-24
location: "Borrego Springs, CA, USA"
---
Authors: <br>
<span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Anderson, B. M., Sekhon, H., Young, D., Edgington-Mitchell, L. E., and Dufour, A.
<br>
<br>

Abstract:<br>
Legumain is a protease expressed predominantly by macrophages, and its increased activity is a hallmark of inflammation, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Legumain is an asparaginyl endopeptidase with a unique preference for cleavage after asparagine residues, and legumain inhibitors have exhibited therapeutic effects in mouse models of multiple pathologies. However, further exploration of legumain’s activities is needed, as drug development requires comprehensive knowledge of the protease’s cellular function, substrates, and interactors. Therefore, we aimed to study the effects of a small-molecule legumain inhibition on the global proteome and N-terminome of macrophages using an unbiased and systemic approach.
We identified 16,757 peptides in RAW264.7 cells under legumain inhibition using shotgun proteomics and observed an increase of 326 unique peptides and a decrease in the expression of 241 unique peptides. Interestingly, mitochondria and metabolism associated proteins were common among the changing peptides, indicating that legumain may have a novel impact on related processes. Moreover, we explored potential substrates of legumain using N-terminomics/TAILS (terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates). Potentially reflecting legumain-dependent cleavage, we identified three proteins cleaved after asparagine residues. Of note, a mitochondrial protein associated with the formation of iron-sulfur clusters, knowns as frataxin, can be cleaved by legumain. Lastly, we identified a 25-KDa form of legumain, which has previously been observed in multiple cell and tissue types, indicating a promising new cleavage site within legumain itself.
Our findings provide novel data for legumain’s functions, indicating new roles for this protease, and will be critical for drug development and the understanding of legumain’s contribution to multiple diseases.
