---
title: "Investigation of post-translational modifications in serum of Crohn’s disease patients using a proteomics approach"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-03-02-CDDW
venue: "Research Topics - 2023 Canadian Digestive Diseases Week (CDDW)"
date: 2023-03-02
location: "Halifax, NS, CA"
---
Authors: <br>
<span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Rosentreter, R., Hirota, S., Lu, C., and Dufour, A.
<br>
<br>

Abstract:<br>
BACKGROUND:  Canada has the highest prevalence rate of Crohn’s disease (CD) in North America. CD is characterized by lesions in the small intestine due to inflammation, promoting diarrhea and abdominal pain. A prolonged chronic inflammation results in fibrotic strictures resistant to anti-inflammatory therapies and promotes narrowing of the luminal space that ultimately requires surgery. Currently, there is no biomarker to distinguish between the inflammatory or stricturing phenotype.

AIMs:
Identify post-translational modifications (PTMs) in serum proteins of CD patients.

METHODS: Serum samples from 4 CD patients with strictures and 4 CD patients without strictures (inflammatory phenotype), as diagnosed by ultrasound imaging, were analyzed using a shotgun-proteomics approach. Protein identification and PTM prediction were performed with FragPipe (v18.0). Identified mass shifts determined by an open search in FragPipe were mapped to possible PTMs and confirmed via unimod.org. Protein quantification was calculated with the MaxLFQ algorithm at a 1% false-discovery rate. Statistical significance was performed by MSstats and MSstatsPTM in R software.

RESULTS: The PTM prediction analysis identified a total of 363 potential modification sites, which also included artifacts and chemical derivatives. Including all potential PTMs in the analysis would lead to false positives; therefore, it was selected only five of the most abundant mass shifts mapped to true PTMs as confirmed by Unimod. The PTMs included cysteine oxidation, serine methylation, and three modifications of the protein n-termini (formaldehyde adduct, carbamylation, and formylation). Standard proteomics analysis identified 3635 unique peptides and 317 unique proteins. The addition of the predicted PTMs increased the number of peptides by 9.8%, reaching a total of 3994 unique sequences. Interestingly, a very subtle increase was observed on the protein level, where only two additional proteins were identified. Of the PTMs identified, methylation of a serine residue on the variable chain of immunoglobulin (IGLV1-47) was statistically enriched in inflammatory samples (5.74 fold change, adj. p-value = 0.041). The variable chain participates in the antigen recognition process, and modification of its amino acids could impact antibody specificity. Additionally, samples from structuring patients showed two modifications on thrombin: oxidation of cysteine and methylation of serine. Thrombin was previously shown to be elevated in CD patients compared to healthy controls. As both modifications were not present in inflammatory patients, they constitute potential biomarkers for specific diagnosis of the structuring disease.


CONCLUSIONS: Post-translational modifications expand the functional diversity of the proteome. The observed gain in peptide identification, without impact on protein levels, demonstrates such diversification promoted by PTMs and exhibits their importance in proteomics studies. Even though the identified modifications require further validation, they can shed light on new players of CD pathogenesis and suggest novel biomarkers for disease diagnosis.
