---
title: "Exploring the role of proteases in distinguishing Crohn’s disease phenotypes"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-04-21-PCP
venue: "Pacific Coast Protease Workshop"
date: 2024-04-21
location: "Borrego Springs, CA, USA"
---
Authors: <br>
<span class="adaptive-bold">de Almeida, L. G. N.</span>, Rosentreter, R., Hirota, S., Lu, C., and Dufour, A.
<br>
<br>

Abstract:<br>
Crohn’s disease (CD) is characterized by lesions in the small intestine due to inflammation, leading to various symptoms, such as diarrhea and abdominal pain. Prolonged chronic inflammation results in fibrotic strictures that are resistant to anti-inflammatory therapies and promote narrowing of the luminal space that ultimately requires surgery. We hypothesize that the blood contains proteins and proteases capable of distinguishing between inflammatory and fibrotic (fibrostenotic) phenotypes. Hence, we analyzed the serum proteome of stricturing and inflammatory patients (n=83/group) using the Olink technology. A total of 5,416 proteins were quantified, and a statistical analysis using the limma package identified 33 proteins statistically enriched in the stricturing group and 52 proteins enriched in the inflammatory group. A STRING-DB analysis identified an enrichment for serine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity (FDR = 0.04) in the stricturing group, which was attributed to the presence of SPINK1, SPINK4, WFDC2, and HRG. Surprisingly, no pathway enrichment for protease or protease inhibitors was found in the inflammatory group, even though it was enriched for five proteases, including one metalloprotease (PEPD), two cysteine proteases (MINDY2 and CSTV), and two serine proteases (MASP1 and DPP4). Of note, proteases in the inflammatory group hold great potential as crucial players in CD pathogenesis. Dipeptidase-4 (DPP4) has been shown to cleave the n-terminal of anti-TNF monoclonal antibodies, a mainstay in CD management. Lastly, we attempted a machine learning approach to classify the two phenotypes. We collected all 264 proteases and protease inhibitors and submitted them to three feature selection approaches and nine algorithms. Elastic net, naïve Bayes, and SVM were among the best performers, reaching a maximum area under the curve (AUC) of 0.77. In conclusion, our study identifies distinct serum proteomic signatures associated with stricturing and inflammatory phenotypes in Crohn’s disease. These findings suggest potential biomarkers and pathways involved in disease pathogenesis, with proteases emerging as key candidates.
